README.md, before:

# Chief

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/hero.png" alt="Chief" width="500">
</p>

Build big projects with Claude. Chief breaks your work into tasks and runs Claude Code in a loop until they're done.

**[Documentation](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/)** · **[Quick Start](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/guide/quick-start)**

![Chief TUI](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/images/tui-screenshot.png)

## Install

```bash
brew install minicodemonkey/chief/chief
```

Or via install script:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MiniCodeMonkey/chief/refs/heads/main/install.sh | sh
```

## Usage

```bash
# Create a new project
chief new

# Launch the TUI and press 's' to start
chief
```

Chief runs Claude in a [Ralph Wiggum loop](https://ghuntley.com/ralph/): each iteration starts with a fresh context window, but progress is persisted between runs. This lets Claude work through large projects without hitting context limits.

## How It Works

1. **Describe your project** as a series of tasks
2. **Chief runs Claude** in a loop, one task at a time
3. **One commit per task** — clean git history, easy to review

See the [documentation](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/concepts/how-it-works) for details.

## Requirements

- [Claude Code CLI](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed and authenticated

## License

MIT

## Acknowledgments

- [snarktank/ralph](https://github.com/snarktank/ralph) — The original Ralph implementation that inspired this project
- [Geoffrey Huntley](https://ghuntley.com/ralph/) — For coining the "Ralph Wiggum loop" pattern
- [Bubble Tea](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea) — TUI framework
- [Lip Gloss](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss) — Terminal styling

Commit message:

Support multiple agent CLIs (Claude & Codex)
Introduce an agent abstraction to support Claude and OpenAI Codex CLIs. Added internal/agent providers (ClaudeProvider, CodexProvider), resolution and installation checks (Resolve, CheckInstalled), and tests. Wire provider selection via --agent / --agent-path flags, CHIEF_AGENT env vars, and .chief/config.yaml (agent.provider, agent.cliPath). Propagate the provider into TUI, new, edit, and convert flows; convert and fix-json now run through the provider. Added Codex JSONL parser for the loop output and accompanying tests. Updated config struct, docs (README, installation, configuration, troubleshooting), and various command code to use the provider abstraction. Key new files: internal/agent/*.go, internal/cmd/convert.go, internal/loop/codex_parser*.go and tests; updated main.go, cmd handlers, prd conversion wiring and docs to reflect multi-agent support.

README.md, after:

# Chief

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/hero.png" alt="Chief" width="500">
</p>

Build big projects with Claude. Chief breaks your work into tasks and runs Claude Code in a loop until they're done.

**[Documentation](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/)** · **[Quick Start](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/guide/quick-start)**

![Chief TUI](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/images/tui-screenshot.png)

## Install

```bash
brew install minicodemonkey/chief/chief
```

Or via install script:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MiniCodeMonkey/chief/refs/heads/main/install.sh | sh
```

## Usage

```bash
# Create a new project
chief new

# Launch the TUI and press 's' to start
chief
```

Chief runs Claude in a [Ralph Wiggum loop](https://ghuntley.com/ralph/): each iteration starts with a fresh context window, but progress is persisted between runs. This lets Claude work through large projects without hitting context limits.

## How It Works

1. **Describe your project** as a series of tasks
2. **Chief runs Claude** in a loop, one task at a time
3. **One commit per task** — clean git history, easy to review

See the [documentation](https://minicodemonkey.github.io/chief/concepts/how-it-works) for details.

## Requirements

- **[Claude Code CLI](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code)** or **[Codex CLI](https://developers.openai.com/codex/cli/reference)** installed and authenticated

Use Claude by default, or configure Codex in `.chief/config.yaml`:

```yaml
agent:
  provider: codex
  cliPath: /usr/local/bin/codex   # optional
```

Or run with `chief --agent codex` or set `CHIEF_AGENT=codex`.

## License

MIT

## Acknowledgments

- [snarktank/ralph](https://github.com/snarktank/ralph) — The original Ralph implementation that inspired this project
- [Geoffrey Huntley](https://ghuntley.com/ralph/) — For coining the "Ralph Wiggum loop" pattern
- [Bubble Tea](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea) — TUI framework
- [Lip Gloss](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss) — Terminal styling
