docs/guide/installation.md, before:

---
description: Install Chief on macOS or Linux via Homebrew, install script, manual download, or from source. Single binary with no runtime dependencies.
---

# Installation

Chief is distributed as a single binary with no runtime dependencies. Choose your preferred installation method below.

## Prerequisites

Before installing Chief, ensure you have **Claude Code CLI** installed and authenticated:

::: code-group

```bash [npm (recommended)]
# Install Claude Code globally
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code

# Authenticate (opens browser)
claude login
```

```bash [npx (no install)]
# Run directly without installing
npx @anthropic-ai/claude-code login
```

:::

::: tip Verify Claude Code Installation
Run `claude --version` to confirm Claude Code is installed. Chief will not work without it.
:::

### Optional: GitHub CLI (`gh`)

If you want Chief to automatically create pull requests when a PRD completes, install the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/):

```bash
# macOS
brew install gh

# Linux
# See https://github.com/cli/cli/blob/trunk/docs/install_linux.md

# Authenticate
gh auth login
```

The `gh` CLI is only required for automatic PR creation. All other features work without it.

## Homebrew (Recommended)

The easiest way to install Chief on **macOS** or **Linux**:

```bash
brew install minicodemonkey/chief/chief
```

This method:
- Automatically handles updates via `brew upgrade`
- Installs to `/opt/homebrew/bin/chief` (Apple Silicon) or `/usr/local/bin/chief` (Intel/Linux)
- Works on macOS (Apple Silicon and Intel) and Linux (x64 and ARM64)

### Updating

The easiest way to update is Chief's built-in update command, which works regardless of how you installed:

```bash
chief update
```

If you installed via Homebrew, you can also use:

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade chief
```

Chief automatically checks for updates on startup and notifies you when a new version is available.

## Install Script

Download and install with a single command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash
```

The script automatically detects your platform and downloads the appropriate binary.

### Script Options

| Option | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `--version` | Install a specific version | `--version v0.1.0` |
| `--dir` | Install to a custom directory | `--dir /opt/chief` |
| `--help` | Show all available options | `--help` |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Install a specific version
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --version v0.1.0

# Install to a custom directory
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --dir ~/.local/bin

# Both options combined
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --version v0.1.0 --dir /opt/chief
```

::: info Custom Directory
If you install to a custom directory, make sure it's in your `PATH`:
```bash
export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
```
Add this to your shell profile (`.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc.) to persist it.
:::

## Manual Binary Download

Download the binary for your platform from the [GitHub Releases page](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases).

### Platform Matrix

| Platform | Architecture | Binary Name | Notes |
|----------|-------------|-------------|-------|
| macOS | Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3) | `chief-darwin-arm64` | Recommended for modern Macs |
| macOS | Intel (x64) | `chief-darwin-amd64` | For older Intel-based Macs |
| Linux | x64 (AMD64) | `chief-linux-amd64` | Most common Linux servers |
| Linux | ARM64 | `chief-linux-arm64` | Raspberry Pi 4, AWS Graviton |

### Installation Steps

::: code-group

```bash [macOS Apple Silicon]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-darwin-arm64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-darwin-arm64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-darwin-arm64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

```bash [macOS Intel]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-darwin-amd64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-darwin-amd64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

```bash [Linux x64]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-linux-amd64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-linux-amd64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

```bash [Linux ARM64]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-linux-arm64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-linux-arm64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-linux-arm64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

:::

::: tip Detect Your Architecture
Not sure which binary you need? Run these commands:
```bash
# macOS
uname -m  # arm64 = Apple Silicon, x86_64 = Intel

# Linux
uname -m  # x86_64 = AMD64, aarch64 = ARM64
```
:::

## Building from Source

Build Chief from source if you want the latest development version or need to customize the build.

### Prerequisites

- **Go 1.21** or later ([install Go](https://go.dev/doc/install))
- **Git** for cloning the repository

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief.git
cd chief

# Build the binary
go build -o chief ./cmd/chief

# Optionally install to your GOPATH/bin
go install ./cmd/chief
```

### Build with Version Info

For a release-quality build with version information embedded:

```bash
go build -ldflags "-X main.version=$(git describe --tags --always)" -o chief ./cmd/chief
```

### Verify the Build

```bash
./chief --version
```

## Verifying Installation

After installing via any method, verify Chief is working correctly:

```bash
# Check the version
chief --version

# View help
chief --help

# Check that Claude Code is accessible
claude --version
```

Expected output:

```
$ chief --version
chief version vX.Y.Z

$ claude --version
Claude Code vX.Y.Z
```

::: warning Troubleshooting
If `chief` is not found after installation:
1. Check that the installation directory is in your `PATH`
2. Open a new terminal window/tab to reload your shell
3. Run `which chief` to see if it's found and where

See the [Troubleshooting Guide](/troubleshooting/common-issues) for more help.
:::

## Next Steps

Now that Chief is installed:

1. **[Quick Start Guide](/guide/quick-start)** - Get running with your first PRD
2. **[How Chief Works](/concepts/how-it-works)** - Understand the autonomous agent concept
3. **[CLI Reference](/reference/cli)** - Explore all available commands

Commit message:

Support multiple agent CLIs (Claude & Codex)
Introduce an agent abstraction to support Claude and OpenAI Codex CLIs. Added internal/agent providers (ClaudeProvider, CodexProvider), resolution and installation checks (Resolve, CheckInstalled), and tests. Wire provider selection via --agent / --agent-path flags, CHIEF_AGENT env vars, and .chief/config.yaml (agent.provider, agent.cliPath). Propagate the provider into TUI, new, edit, and convert flows; convert and fix-json now run through the provider. Added Codex JSONL parser for the loop output and accompanying tests. Updated config struct, docs (README, installation, configuration, troubleshooting), and various command code to use the provider abstraction. Key new files: internal/agent/*.go, internal/cmd/convert.go, internal/loop/codex_parser*.go and tests; updated main.go, cmd handlers, prd conversion wiring and docs to reflect multi-agent support.

docs/guide/installation.md, after:

---
description: Install Chief on macOS or Linux via Homebrew, install script, manual download, or from source. Single binary with no runtime dependencies.
---

# Installation

Chief is distributed as a single binary with no runtime dependencies. Choose your preferred installation method below.

## Prerequisites

Chief needs an agent CLI: **Claude Code** (default) or **Codex**. Install at least one and authenticate.

### Option A: Claude Code CLI (default)

::: code-group

```bash [npm (recommended)]
# Install Claude Code globally
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code

# Authenticate (opens browser)
claude login
```

```bash [npx (no install)]
# Run directly without installing
npx @anthropic-ai/claude-code login
```

:::

::: tip Verify Claude Code
Run `claude --version` to confirm Claude Code is installed.
:::

### Option B: Codex CLI

To use [OpenAI Codex CLI](https://developers.openai.com/codex/cli/reference) instead of Claude:

1. Install Codex per the [official reference](https://developers.openai.com/codex/cli/reference).
2. Ensure `codex` is on your PATH, or set `agent.cliPath` in `.chief/config.yaml` (see [Configuration](/reference/configuration#agent)).
3. Run Chief with `chief --agent codex` or set `CHIEF_AGENT=codex`, or set `agent.provider: codex` in `.chief/config.yaml`.

::: tip Verify Codex
Run `codex --version` (or your custom path) to confirm Codex is available.
:::

### Optional: GitHub CLI (`gh`)

If you want Chief to automatically create pull requests when a PRD completes, install the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/):

```bash
# macOS
brew install gh

# Linux
# See https://github.com/cli/cli/blob/trunk/docs/install_linux.md

# Authenticate
gh auth login
```

The `gh` CLI is only required for automatic PR creation. All other features work without it.

## Homebrew (Recommended)

The easiest way to install Chief on **macOS** or **Linux**:

```bash
brew install minicodemonkey/chief/chief
```

This method:
- Automatically handles updates via `brew upgrade`
- Installs to `/opt/homebrew/bin/chief` (Apple Silicon) or `/usr/local/bin/chief` (Intel/Linux)
- Works on macOS (Apple Silicon and Intel) and Linux (x64 and ARM64)

### Updating

The easiest way to update is Chief's built-in update command, which works regardless of how you installed:

```bash
chief update
```

If you installed via Homebrew, you can also use:

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade chief
```

Chief automatically checks for updates on startup and notifies you when a new version is available.

## Install Script

Download and install with a single command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash
```

The script automatically detects your platform and downloads the appropriate binary.

### Script Options

| Option | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `--version` | Install a specific version | `--version v0.1.0` |
| `--dir` | Install to a custom directory | `--dir /opt/chief` |
| `--help` | Show all available options | `--help` |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Install a specific version
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --version v0.1.0

# Install to a custom directory
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --dir ~/.local/bin

# Both options combined
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --version v0.1.0 --dir /opt/chief
```

::: info Custom Directory
If you install to a custom directory, make sure it's in your `PATH`:
```bash
export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
```
Add this to your shell profile (`.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc.) to persist it.
:::

## Manual Binary Download

Download the binary for your platform from the [GitHub Releases page](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases).

### Platform Matrix

| Platform | Architecture | Binary Name | Notes |
|----------|-------------|-------------|-------|
| macOS | Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3) | `chief-darwin-arm64` | Recommended for modern Macs |
| macOS | Intel (x64) | `chief-darwin-amd64` | For older Intel-based Macs |
| Linux | x64 (AMD64) | `chief-linux-amd64` | Most common Linux servers |
| Linux | ARM64 | `chief-linux-arm64` | Raspberry Pi 4, AWS Graviton |

### Installation Steps

::: code-group

```bash [macOS Apple Silicon]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-darwin-arm64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-darwin-arm64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-darwin-arm64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

```bash [macOS Intel]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-darwin-amd64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-darwin-amd64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

```bash [Linux x64]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-linux-amd64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-linux-amd64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

```bash [Linux ARM64]
# Download the binary
curl -LO https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/releases/latest/download/chief-linux-arm64

# Make it executable
chmod +x chief-linux-arm64

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv chief-linux-arm64 /usr/local/bin/chief
```

:::

::: tip Detect Your Architecture
Not sure which binary you need? Run these commands:
```bash
# macOS
uname -m  # arm64 = Apple Silicon, x86_64 = Intel

# Linux
uname -m  # x86_64 = AMD64, aarch64 = ARM64
```
:::

## Building from Source

Build Chief from source if you want the latest development version or need to customize the build.

### Prerequisites

- **Go 1.21** or later ([install Go](https://go.dev/doc/install))
- **Git** for cloning the repository

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief.git
cd chief

# Build the binary
go build -o chief ./cmd/chief

# Optionally install to your GOPATH/bin
go install ./cmd/chief
```

### Build with Version Info

For a release-quality build with version information embedded:

```bash
go build -ldflags "-X main.version=$(git describe --tags --always)" -o chief ./cmd/chief
```

### Verify the Build

```bash
./chief --version
```

## Verifying Installation

After installing via any method, verify Chief is working correctly:

```bash
# Check the version
chief --version

# View help
chief --help

# Check that your agent CLI is accessible (Claude default, or codex if configured)
claude --version
# or: codex --version
```

Expected output (example with Claude):

```
$ chief --version
chief version vX.Y.Z

$ claude --version
Claude Code vX.Y.Z
```

::: warning Troubleshooting
If `chief` is not found after installation:
1. Check that the installation directory is in your `PATH`
2. Open a new terminal window/tab to reload your shell
3. Run `which chief` to see if it's found and where

See the [Troubleshooting Guide](/troubleshooting/common-issues) for more help.
:::

## Next Steps

Now that Chief is installed:

1. **[Quick Start Guide](/guide/quick-start)** - Get running with your first PRD
2. **[How Chief Works](/concepts/how-it-works)** - Understand the autonomous agent concept
3. **[CLI Reference](/reference/cli)** - Explore all available commands
