docs/guide/quick-start.md, before:

---
description: Get Chief running quickly. Install via Homebrew, create a PRD, and watch Chief autonomously build your features.
---

# Quick Start

Get Chief running in under 5 minutes.

<div style="max-width: 800px; margin: 2rem auto; padding: 0 1rem;">
  <img src="/images/tui-screenshot.png" alt="Chief TUI" style="border-radius: 8px; box-shadow: 0 4px 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.3);" />
</div>

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

- **Claude Code CLI** installed and authenticated. [Install Claude Code →](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code)
- A project you want to work on (or create a new one)

::: tip Verify Claude Code is working
Run `claude --version` in your terminal to confirm Claude Code is installed.
:::

## Step 1: Install Chief

Choose your preferred installation method:

::: code-group

```bash [Homebrew (Recommended)]
brew install minicodemonkey/chief/chief
```

```bash [Install Script]
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash
```

```bash [From Source]
git clone https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief.git
cd chief
go build -o chief ./cmd/chief
mv chief /usr/local/bin/
```

:::

Verify the installation:

```bash
chief --version
```

## Step 2: Create Your First PRD

Navigate to your project directory and create a new PRD:

```bash
cd your-project
chief new
```

This launches Claude Code with a preloaded prompt. Work with Claude to describe what you want to build—your project goals, user stories, and acceptance criteria. Claude will help structure your requirements and write the `prd.md` file.

When you're done, type `/exit` to leave Claude Code. Chief then parses `prd.md` and generates `prd.json`:

- `prd.md` - Human-readable project requirements (written by Claude)
- `prd.json` - Machine-readable user stories for Chief to execute (generated by Chief)

::: tip Iterating on your PRD
Run `chief edit` to reopen Claude Code and refine your `prd.md`. Chief will regenerate `prd.json` when you `/exit`.
:::

## Step 3: Launch the TUI

Launch Chief's Terminal User Interface:

```bash
chief
```

On first launch, Chief prompts you to configure a few settings:

1. **Post-completion automation** — Whether to automatically push branches and create PRs when a PRD completes (recommended: Yes for both)
2. **Worktree setup command** — A command to run in new worktrees (e.g., `npm install`). You can let Claude detect it automatically, enter it manually, or skip

These settings are saved to `.chief/config.yaml` and can be changed anytime via the Settings TUI (press `,`).

## Step 4: Start the Loop

Press `s` to start the Ralph Loop. Chief will offer to create a worktree for isolated development, then begin working through your stories automatically.

The TUI shows:

- **Tab Bar** - All your PRDs with status indicators
- **Stories List** - User stories with completion status
- **Story Details** - Current story's description and acceptance criteria
- **Live Activity** - Real-time status updates from Claude

### Keyboard Controls

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `s` | **Start** the loop (when Ready, Paused, or Stopped) |
| `p` | **Pause** the loop (finishes current iteration) |
| `x` | **Stop** the loop immediately |
| `t` | **Toggle** between Dashboard and Log views |
| `n` | Open **PRD picker** to switch or create PRDs |
| `1-9` | **Quick switch** to PRD tabs 1-9 |
| `j/↓` | Navigate down (stories or scroll log) |
| `k/↑` | Navigate up (stories or scroll log) |
| `m` | **Merge** completed branch (in picker) |
| `c` | **Clean** worktree (in picker) |
| `,` | Open **Settings** |
| `?` | Show **help** overlay |
| `q` | **Quit** Chief |

::: info Hands-off operation
Once started with `s`, Chief runs autonomously. You can watch the progress or walk away—it will complete your PRD and play a sound when done.
:::

## What's Next?

Now that you've run your first Chief loop, explore these resources:

- [Installation Guide](/guide/installation) - Detailed installation options for all platforms
- [How Chief Works](/concepts/how-it-works) - Understand the autonomous loop
- [The Ralph Loop](/concepts/ralph-loop) - Deep dive into the execution model
- [PRD Format](/concepts/prd-format) - Write effective PRDs
- [CLI Reference](/reference/cli) - All available commands and options

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for v0.3.1–v0.5.2 release changes
- Add `chief update` command and automatic version check on startup
- Add diff view (`d` key) and `l` key for PRD picker selection mode
- Add `e` key (edit PRD from any view), `PgUp`/`PgDn`, `+`/`-` keybindings
- Replace removed `--no-sound` flag with `--no-retry` flag
- Fix `--max-iterations` default from hardcoded values to "Dynamic"
- Add `name` and `context` arguments to `chief new`
- Fix build-from-source commands to include `./cmd/chief`
- Remove obsolete sound/audio references (feature removed in v0.5.0)

docs/guide/quick-start.md, after:

---
description: Get Chief running quickly. Install via Homebrew, create a PRD, and watch Chief autonomously build your features.
---

# Quick Start

Get Chief running in under 5 minutes.

<div style="max-width: 800px; margin: 2rem auto; padding: 0 1rem;">
  <img src="/images/tui-screenshot.png" alt="Chief TUI" style="border-radius: 8px; box-shadow: 0 4px 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.3);" />
</div>

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

- **Claude Code CLI** installed and authenticated. [Install Claude Code →](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code)
- A project you want to work on (or create a new one)

::: tip Verify Claude Code is working
Run `claude --version` in your terminal to confirm Claude Code is installed.
:::

## Step 1: Install Chief

Choose your preferred installation method:

::: code-group

```bash [Homebrew (Recommended)]
brew install minicodemonkey/chief/chief
```

```bash [Install Script]
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minicodemonkey/chief/main/install.sh | bash
```

```bash [From Source]
git clone https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief.git
cd chief
go build -o chief ./cmd/chief
mv chief /usr/local/bin/
```

:::

Verify the installation:

```bash
chief --version
```

## Step 2: Create Your First PRD

Navigate to your project directory and create a new PRD:

```bash
cd your-project
chief new
```

This launches Claude Code with a preloaded prompt. Work with Claude to describe what you want to build—your project goals, user stories, and acceptance criteria. Claude will help structure your requirements and write the `prd.md` file.

When you're done, type `/exit` to leave Claude Code. Chief then parses `prd.md` and generates `prd.json`:

- `prd.md` - Human-readable project requirements (written by Claude)
- `prd.json` - Machine-readable user stories for Chief to execute (generated by Chief)

::: tip Iterating on your PRD
Run `chief edit` to reopen Claude Code and refine your `prd.md`. Chief will regenerate `prd.json` when you `/exit`.
:::

## Step 3: Launch the TUI

Launch Chief's Terminal User Interface:

```bash
chief
```

On first launch, Chief prompts you to configure a few settings:

1. **Post-completion automation** — Whether to automatically push branches and create PRs when a PRD completes (recommended: Yes for both)
2. **Worktree setup command** — A command to run in new worktrees (e.g., `npm install`). You can let Claude detect it automatically, enter it manually, or skip

These settings are saved to `.chief/config.yaml` and can be changed anytime via the Settings TUI (press `,`).

## Step 4: Start the Loop

Press `s` to start the Ralph Loop. Chief will offer to create a worktree for isolated development, then begin working through your stories automatically.

The TUI shows:

- **Tab Bar** — All your PRDs with status indicators
- **Stories List** — User stories with completion status
- **Story Details** — Current story's description and acceptance criteria
- **Live Activity** — Real-time status updates from Claude
- **Diff View** — Press `d` to see the commit diff for the selected story

### Keyboard Controls

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `s` | **Start** the loop (when Ready, Paused, Stopped, or Error) |
| `p` | **Pause** the loop (finishes current iteration) |
| `x` | **Stop** the loop immediately |
| `t` | **Toggle** between Dashboard and Log views |
| `d` | **Diff view** — show the selected story's commit diff |
| `n` | Open **PRD picker** to create or switch PRDs |
| `l` | Open **PRD picker** in selection mode |
| `e` | **Edit** current PRD via Claude Code |
| `1-9` | **Quick switch** to PRD tabs 1-9 |
| `j/↓` | Navigate down (stories or scroll log/diff) |
| `k/↑` | Navigate up (stories or scroll log/diff) |
| `PgDn` / `Ctrl+D` | Page down (log/diff) |
| `PgUp` / `Ctrl+U` | Page up (log/diff) |
| `+`/`-` | Adjust max iterations |
| `m` | **Merge** completed branch (in picker) |
| `c` | **Clean** worktree (in picker) |
| `,` | Open **Settings** |
| `?` | Show **help** overlay |
| `q` | **Quit** Chief |

::: info Hands-off operation
Once started with `s`, Chief runs autonomously. You can watch the progress or walk away—it will complete your PRD while you're gone.
:::

## What's Next?

Now that you've run your first Chief loop, explore these resources:

- [Installation Guide](/guide/installation) - Detailed installation options for all platforms
- [How Chief Works](/concepts/how-it-works) - Understand the autonomous loop
- [The Ralph Loop](/concepts/ralph-loop) - Deep dive into the execution model
- [PRD Format](/concepts/prd-format) - Write effective PRDs
- [CLI Reference](/reference/cli) - All available commands and options
