docs/troubleshooting/common-issues.md, before:

---
description: Troubleshoot common Chief issues including Claude not found, permission errors, worktree problems, and loop failures.
---

# Common Issues

Solutions to frequently encountered problems.

## Claude Not Found

**Symptom:** Error message about Claude Code CLI not being installed.

```
Error: Claude Code CLI not found. Please install it first.
```

**Cause:** Claude Code isn't installed or isn't in your PATH.

**Solution:**

Install Claude Code following the [official instructions](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/getting-started), then verify:

```bash
claude --version
```

## Permission Denied

**Symptom:** Claude keeps asking for permission, disrupting autonomous flow.

**Cause:** Claude Code requires explicit permission for file writes and command execution.

**Solution:**

Chief automatically runs Claude with permission prompts disabled for autonomous operation. If you're still seeing permission issues, ensure you're running Chief (not Claude directly) and that your Claude Code installation is up to date.

## PRD Not Updating

**Symptom:** Stories stay incomplete even though Claude seems to finish.

**Cause:** Claude didn't output the completion signal, or file watching failed.

**Solution:**

1. Check `claude.log` for errors:
   ```bash
   tail -100 .chief/prds/your-prd/claude.log
   ```

2. Manually mark story complete if appropriate:
   ```json
   {
     "id": "US-001",
     "passes": true,
     "inProgress": false
   }
   ```

3. Restart Chief to pick up where it left off

## Loop Not Progressing

**Symptom:** Chief runs but doesn't make progress on stories.

**Cause:** Various—Claude may be stuck, context too large, or PRD unclear.

**Solution:**

1. Check `claude.log` for what Claude is doing:
   ```bash
   tail -f .chief/prds/your-prd/claude.log
   ```

2. Simplify the current story's acceptance criteria

3. Add context to `prd.md` about the codebase

4. Try restarting Chief:
   ```bash
   # Press 'x' to stop (or Ctrl+C to quit)
   chief  # Launch TUI
   # Press 's' to start the loop
   ```

## Max Iterations Reached

**Symptom:** Chief stops with "max iterations reached" message.

**Cause:** Claude hasn't completed after the iteration limit.

**Solution:**

1. Increase the limit:
   ```bash
   chief --max-iterations 200
   ```

2. Or investigate why it's taking so many iterations:
   - Story too complex? Split it
   - Stuck in a loop? Check `claude.log`
   - Unclear acceptance criteria? Clarify them

## "No PRD Found"

**Symptom:** Error about no PRD being found.

**Cause:** Missing `.chief/prds/` directory or invalid PRD structure.

**Solution:**

1. Create a PRD:
   ```bash
   chief new
   ```

2. Or specify the PRD explicitly:
   ```bash
   chief my-feature
   ```

3. Verify structure:
   ```
   .chief/
   └── prds/
       └── my-feature/
           ├── prd.md
           └── prd.json
   ```

## Invalid JSON

**Symptom:** Error parsing `prd.json`.

**Cause:** Syntax error in the JSON file.

**Solution:**

1. Validate your JSON:
   ```bash
   cat .chief/prds/your-prd/prd.json | jq .
   ```

2. Common issues:
   - Trailing commas (not allowed in JSON)
   - Missing quotes around keys
   - Unescaped characters in strings

## Worktree Setup Failures

**Symptom:** Worktree creation fails when starting a PRD.

**Cause:** The branch already exists, the worktree path is in use, or git state is corrupted.

**Solution:**

1. Chief automatically handles common cases (reuses valid worktrees, cleans stale ones). If it still fails:

2. Manually clean up:
   ```bash
   # Remove the worktree
   git worktree remove .chief/worktrees/<prd-name> --force

   # Delete the branch if needed
   git branch -D chief/<prd-name>

   # Prune git's worktree tracking
   git worktree prune
   ```

3. Restart Chief and try again

## PR Creation Failures

**Symptom:** Auto-PR creation fails after a PRD completes.

**Cause:** `gh` CLI not installed, not authenticated, or network issues.

**Solution:**

1. Verify `gh` is installed and authenticated:
   ```bash
   gh auth status
   ```

2. If not installed, get it from [cli.github.com](https://cli.github.com/)

3. If not authenticated:
   ```bash
   gh auth login
   ```

4. You can also create the PR manually:
   ```bash
   git push -u origin chief/<prd-name>
   gh pr create --title "feat: <prd-name>" --body "..."
   ```

5. Auto-PR can be disabled in Settings (`,`) — push-only mode still works

## Orphaned Worktrees

**Symptom:** The picker shows entries marked `[orphaned]` or `[orphaned worktree]`.

**Cause:** A previous Chief session crashed or was terminated without cleaning up its worktree.

**Solution:**

1. Orphaned worktrees are harmless but take disk space
2. Select the orphaned entry in the picker and press `c` to clean it up
3. Choose "Remove worktree + delete branch" or "Remove worktree only" as appropriate

Chief automatically prunes git's internal worktree tracking on startup, but does not auto-delete worktree directories to avoid data loss.

## Merge Conflicts

**Symptom:** Merging a completed branch fails with conflict list.

**Cause:** The PRD's branch has changes that conflict with the target branch.

**Solution:**

1. Chief shows the list of conflicting files in the merge result dialog
2. Resolve conflicts manually in a terminal:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   git merge chief/<prd-name>
   # Resolve conflicts in the listed files
   git add .
   git commit
   ```
3. Or push the branch and resolve via a pull request on GitHub

## Still Stuck?

If none of these solutions help:

1. Check the [FAQ](/troubleshooting/faq)
2. Search [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/issues)
3. Open a new issue with:
   - Chief version (`chief --version`)
   - Your `prd.json` (sanitized)
   - Relevant `claude.log` excerpts

Commit message:

Support multiple agent CLIs (Claude & Codex)
Introduce an agent abstraction to support Claude and OpenAI Codex CLIs. Added internal/agent providers (ClaudeProvider, CodexProvider), resolution and installation checks (Resolve, CheckInstalled), and tests. Wire provider selection via --agent / --agent-path flags, CHIEF_AGENT env vars, and .chief/config.yaml (agent.provider, agent.cliPath). Propagate the provider into TUI, new, edit, and convert flows; convert and fix-json now run through the provider. Added Codex JSONL parser for the loop output and accompanying tests. Updated config struct, docs (README, installation, configuration, troubleshooting), and various command code to use the provider abstraction. Key new files: internal/agent/*.go, internal/cmd/convert.go, internal/loop/codex_parser*.go and tests; updated main.go, cmd handlers, prd conversion wiring and docs to reflect multi-agent support.

docs/troubleshooting/common-issues.md, after:

---
description: Troubleshoot common Chief issues including Claude not found, permission errors, worktree problems, and loop failures.
---

# Common Issues

Solutions to frequently encountered problems.

## Agent CLI Not Found

**Symptom:** Error that the agent CLI (Claude or Codex) is not found.

```
Error: Claude CLI not found in PATH. Install it or set agent.cliPath in .chief/config.yaml
```
or
```
Error: Codex CLI not found in PATH. Install it or set agent.cliPath in .chief/config.yaml
```

**Cause:** The chosen agent CLI isn't installed or isn't in your PATH.

**Solution:**

- **Claude (default):** Install [Claude Code CLI](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/getting-started), then verify:
  ```bash
  claude --version
  ```
- **Codex:** Install [Codex CLI](https://developers.openai.com/codex/cli/reference) and ensure `codex` is in PATH, or set the path in config:
  ```yaml
  agent:
    provider: codex
    cliPath: /usr/local/bin/codex
  ```
  Verify with `codex --version` (or your `cliPath`).

## Permission Denied

**Symptom:** Claude keeps asking for permission, disrupting autonomous flow.

**Cause:** Claude Code requires explicit permission for file writes and command execution.

**Solution:**

Chief automatically runs Claude with permission prompts disabled for autonomous operation. If you're still seeing permission issues, ensure you're running Chief (not Claude directly) and that your Claude Code installation is up to date.

## PRD Not Updating

**Symptom:** Stories stay incomplete even though Claude seems to finish.

**Cause:** Claude didn't output the completion signal, or file watching failed.

**Solution:**

1. Check the agent log for errors (e.g. `claude.log` or `codex.log` in the PRD directory):
   ```bash
   tail -100 .chief/prds/your-prd/claude.log
   ```

2. Manually mark story complete if appropriate:
   ```json
   {
     "id": "US-001",
     "passes": true,
     "inProgress": false
   }
   ```

3. Restart Chief to pick up where it left off

## Loop Not Progressing

**Symptom:** Chief runs but doesn't make progress on stories.

**Cause:** Various—Claude may be stuck, context too large, or PRD unclear.

**Solution:**

1. Check the agent log (e.g. `claude.log` or `codex.log`) for what the agent is doing:
   ```bash
   tail -f .chief/prds/your-prd/claude.log
   ```

2. Simplify the current story's acceptance criteria

3. Add context to `prd.md` about the codebase

4. Try restarting Chief:
   ```bash
   # Press 'x' to stop (or Ctrl+C to quit)
   chief  # Launch TUI
   # Press 's' to start the loop
   ```

## Max Iterations Reached

**Symptom:** Chief stops with "max iterations reached" message.

**Cause:** Claude hasn't completed after the iteration limit.

**Solution:**

1. Increase the limit:
   ```bash
   chief --max-iterations 200
   ```

2. Or investigate why it's taking so many iterations:
   - Story too complex? Split it
   - Stuck in a loop? Check the agent log (`claude.log` or `codex.log`)
   - Unclear acceptance criteria? Clarify them

## "No PRD Found"

**Symptom:** Error about no PRD being found.

**Cause:** Missing `.chief/prds/` directory or invalid PRD structure.

**Solution:**

1. Create a PRD:
   ```bash
   chief new
   ```

2. Or specify the PRD explicitly:
   ```bash
   chief my-feature
   ```

3. Verify structure:
   ```
   .chief/
   └── prds/
       └── my-feature/
           ├── prd.md
           └── prd.json
   ```

## Invalid JSON

**Symptom:** Error parsing `prd.json`.

**Cause:** Syntax error in the JSON file.

**Solution:**

1. Validate your JSON:
   ```bash
   cat .chief/prds/your-prd/prd.json | jq .
   ```

2. Common issues:
   - Trailing commas (not allowed in JSON)
   - Missing quotes around keys
   - Unescaped characters in strings

## Worktree Setup Failures

**Symptom:** Worktree creation fails when starting a PRD.

**Cause:** The branch already exists, the worktree path is in use, or git state is corrupted.

**Solution:**

1. Chief automatically handles common cases (reuses valid worktrees, cleans stale ones). If it still fails:

2. Manually clean up:
   ```bash
   # Remove the worktree
   git worktree remove .chief/worktrees/<prd-name> --force

   # Delete the branch if needed
   git branch -D chief/<prd-name>

   # Prune git's worktree tracking
   git worktree prune
   ```

3. Restart Chief and try again

## PR Creation Failures

**Symptom:** Auto-PR creation fails after a PRD completes.

**Cause:** `gh` CLI not installed, not authenticated, or network issues.

**Solution:**

1. Verify `gh` is installed and authenticated:
   ```bash
   gh auth status
   ```

2. If not installed, get it from [cli.github.com](https://cli.github.com/)

3. If not authenticated:
   ```bash
   gh auth login
   ```

4. You can also create the PR manually:
   ```bash
   git push -u origin chief/<prd-name>
   gh pr create --title "feat: <prd-name>" --body "..."
   ```

5. Auto-PR can be disabled in Settings (`,`) — push-only mode still works

## Orphaned Worktrees

**Symptom:** The picker shows entries marked `[orphaned]` or `[orphaned worktree]`.

**Cause:** A previous Chief session crashed or was terminated without cleaning up its worktree.

**Solution:**

1. Orphaned worktrees are harmless but take disk space
2. Select the orphaned entry in the picker and press `c` to clean it up
3. Choose "Remove worktree + delete branch" or "Remove worktree only" as appropriate

Chief automatically prunes git's internal worktree tracking on startup, but does not auto-delete worktree directories to avoid data loss.

## Merge Conflicts

**Symptom:** Merging a completed branch fails with conflict list.

**Cause:** The PRD's branch has changes that conflict with the target branch.

**Solution:**

1. Chief shows the list of conflicting files in the merge result dialog
2. Resolve conflicts manually in a terminal:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   git merge chief/<prd-name>
   # Resolve conflicts in the listed files
   git add .
   git commit
   ```
3. Or push the branch and resolve via a pull request on GitHub

## Still Stuck?

If none of these solutions help:

1. Check the [FAQ](/troubleshooting/faq)
2. Search [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/issues)
3. Open a new issue with:
   - Chief version (`chief --version`)
   - Your `prd.json` (sanitized)
   - Relevant agent log excerpts (e.g. `claude.log` or `codex.log`)
