docs/troubleshooting/faq.md, before:

---
description: Frequently asked questions about Chief, the autonomous PRD agent. Answers about usage, requirements, and how it works.
---

# FAQ

Frequently asked questions about Chief.

## General

### What is Chief?

Chief is an autonomous PRD agent. You write a Product Requirements Document with user stories, run Chief, and watch as Claude builds your code—story by story.

### Why "Chief"?

Chief manages the project. You write the requirements, Chief orchestrates the work.

### Is Chief free?

Chief itself is open source and free. However, it uses Claude Code, which requires an Anthropic API subscription.

### What models does Chief use?

Chief uses whatever model is configured in Claude Code. By default, this is Claude 3 Sonnet.

## Usage

### Can I run Chief on a remote server?

Yes! Chief works great on remote servers. SSH in, run `chief`, press `s` to start the loop, and let it work. Use `screen` or `tmux` if you want to disconnect.

```bash
ssh my-server
tmux new -s chief
chief
# Press 's' to start the loop
# Ctrl+B D to detach
```

### How do I resume after stopping?

Run `chief` again and press `s` to start. It reads state from `prd.json` and continues where it left off.

### Can I edit the PRD while Chief is running?

Yes, but be careful. Chief re-reads `prd.json` between iterations. Edits to the current story might cause confusion.

Best practice: pause Chief with `p` (or stop with `x`), edit, then press `s` to resume.

### Can I have multiple PRDs?

Yes. Create separate directories under `.chief/prds/`:

```
.chief/prds/
├── feature-a/
└── feature-b/
```

Run with `chief feature-a` or use the TUI: press `n` to open the PRD picker, or `1-9` to quickly switch between tabs. Multiple PRDs can run in parallel.

### How do I skip a story?

Mark it as passed manually:

```json
{
  "id": "US-003",
  "passes": true,
  "inProgress": false
}
```

Or remove it from the PRD entirely.

## Technical

### Why stream-json?

Claude Code outputs JSON in a streaming format. Chief uses stream-json to parse this in real-time, allowing it to:
- Display progress as it happens
- React to completion signals immediately
- Handle large outputs efficiently

### Why conventional commits?

Conventional commits (`feat:`, `fix:`, etc.) provide:
- Clear history of what each story added
- Easy to review changes per-story
- Works with changelog generators

### What if Claude makes a mistake?

Git is your safety net. Each story is committed separately, so you can:

```bash
# See what changed
git log --oneline

# Revert a story
git revert HEAD

# Or reset and re-run
git reset --hard HEAD~1
chief  # then press 's' to start
```

### Does Chief work with any language?

Yes. Chief doesn't know or care what language you're using. It passes your PRD to Claude, which handles the implementation.

### How does Chief handle tests?

Chief instructs Claude to run quality checks (tests, lint, typecheck) before committing. The specific commands come from your PRD's settings or Claude's inference from your codebase.

## Troubleshooting

### See [Common Issues](/troubleshooting/common-issues)

For specific problems and solutions.

## Getting Help

### Where can I report bugs?

[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/issues)

### Is there a community chat?

Coming soon. For now, use GitHub Discussions.

### Can I contribute?

Yes! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) in the repository.

Commit message:

docs: fix inaccuracies in troubleshooting docs
- Fix Claude Code installation instructions (not an npm package)
- Correct default max-iterations from 100 to 10
- Update "Why Chief?" to reference Chief Wiggum
- Remove outdated model default mention
- Remove reference to non-existent PRD settings
- Clarify Claude Pro/API requirements

docs/troubleshooting/faq.md, after:

---
description: Frequently asked questions about Chief, the autonomous PRD agent. Answers about usage, requirements, and how it works.
---

# FAQ

Frequently asked questions about Chief.

## General

### What is Chief?

Chief is an autonomous PRD agent. You write a Product Requirements Document with user stories, run Chief, and watch as Claude builds your code—story by story.

### Why "Chief"?

Named after Chief Wiggum from The Simpsons (Ralph Wiggum's dad). Chief orchestrates the [Ralph loop](https://ghuntley.com/ralph/).

### Is Chief free?

Chief itself is open source and free. However, it uses Claude Code, which requires a Claude Pro subscription or Anthropic API access.

### What models does Chief use?

Chief uses whatever model is configured in Claude Code.

## Usage

### Can I run Chief on a remote server?

Yes! Chief works great on remote servers. SSH in, run `chief`, press `s` to start the loop, and let it work. Use `screen` or `tmux` if you want to disconnect.

```bash
ssh my-server
tmux new -s chief
chief
# Press 's' to start the loop
# Ctrl+B D to detach
```

### How do I resume after stopping?

Run `chief` again and press `s` to start. It reads state from `prd.json` and continues where it left off.

### Can I edit the PRD while Chief is running?

Yes, but be careful. Chief re-reads `prd.json` between iterations. Edits to the current story might cause confusion.

Best practice: pause Chief with `p` (or stop with `x`), edit, then press `s` to resume.

### Can I have multiple PRDs?

Yes. Create separate directories under `.chief/prds/`:

```
.chief/prds/
├── feature-a/
└── feature-b/
```

Run with `chief feature-a` or use the TUI: press `n` to open the PRD picker, or `1-9` to quickly switch between tabs. Multiple PRDs can run in parallel.

### How do I skip a story?

Mark it as passed manually:

```json
{
  "id": "US-003",
  "passes": true,
  "inProgress": false
}
```

Or remove it from the PRD entirely.

## Technical

### Why stream-json?

Claude Code outputs JSON in a streaming format. Chief uses stream-json to parse this in real-time, allowing it to:
- Display progress as it happens
- React to completion signals immediately
- Handle large outputs efficiently

### Why conventional commits?

Conventional commits (`feat:`, `fix:`, etc.) provide:
- Clear history of what each story added
- Easy to review changes per-story
- Works with changelog generators

### What if Claude makes a mistake?

Git is your safety net. Each story is committed separately, so you can:

```bash
# See what changed
git log --oneline

# Revert a story
git revert HEAD

# Or reset and re-run
git reset --hard HEAD~1
chief  # then press 's' to start
```

### Does Chief work with any language?

Yes. Chief doesn't know or care what language you're using. It passes your PRD to Claude, which handles the implementation.

### How does Chief handle tests?

Chief instructs Claude to run quality checks (tests, lint, typecheck) before committing. Claude infers the appropriate commands from your codebase (e.g., `npm test`, `pytest`).

## Troubleshooting

### See [Common Issues](/troubleshooting/common-issues)

For specific problems and solutions.

## Getting Help

### Where can I report bugs?

[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/issues)

### Is there a community chat?

Coming soon. For now, use GitHub Discussions.

### Can I contribute?

Yes! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/minicodemonkey/chief/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) in the repository.
